git status
git branch --list all the branches you have
git log
git status
git checkout branch_name -- active particular branch
git add file_name
git commit -m "message that you want to add"

merge two branches
first go into base branch
active base branch
git push branch_name --
git pull 



Open git bash/cmd in project folder.
Create Branch command
For new branch,
Git checkout -b dev_project-name_name
If Already created, then only checkout the branch,
Git checkout dev_project-name_name
Make your branch up to date with “development” branch
For complete code reset
Git fetch --all
Git reset --hard origin/development  (only if required to reset the code. All changes will be lost, if used during development)
For getting updates only
Git fetch --all
Git rebase origin/development
If any conflicts,
Do not exit the bash/cmd.
Fix conflicts manually from IDE(VS code,..)
Save the File.
Return to bash/cmd.
Git add .
Git rebase --continue
Commit and Push code to the Repo
Save all changes
Ensure the files which are changed
Git status  (red colour shows files not added to the que)
Add files to the stack
Git add .    (use ‘.’ For adding all files listed. Or provide path of each file you need to add separately)
Confirm files added
Git status (added files under green colour)
Commit with message
Git commit -m “commit message here”
Before pushing to repo, rebase again with “development” branch to make sure everything UpToDate
Git fetch --all
Git rebase origin/development
Solve conflicts If any , else proceed to push
Push the code to repo
Git push origin dev_project-name_name (please note that it is single space used instead of ‘/’ while pushing. Also please don’t use ‘--force’ for force push)
Raise Pull Request
Go to your repo in browser
Click branches under ‘Repos’ tab
Select your branch
Make sure your commit is reflected under ‘history’ tab.
Click “new pull request” from  Pull request tab
Choose “your branch” into “development” branch. (Do not choose “master” which is default.)
Add title and description, Click “CREATE”.
Once Approved, merge the Pull Request. Never Approve PR your self.